# SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-only
config XSC
	bool "eXtended Syscall (XSC) support"
	depends on X86_64 || ARM64
	select TRACING
	help
	  This option enables support for the eXtended Syscall (XSC) interface,
	  which replaces trap-based syscalls with shared-memory submission and
	  completion rings for improved security and performance.

	  XSC removes user→kernel privilege transitions, eliminating Meltdown
	  and Spectre-class speculative execution vulnerabilities and their
	  performance costs (KPTI, IBPB, retpolines, etc.).

	  When enabled, XSC becomes the mandatory syscall path. Applications
	  submit system call requests through shared rings instead of trap
	  instructions. The kernel polls these rings using adaptive timing.

	  XSC provides full Linux API compatibility with identical semantics.
	  Only the ABI (syscall transport) changes.

	  If you want exception-less, high-security syscall execution, say Y.

	  If unsure, say N.

config XSC_ADAPTIVE_POLL
	bool "XSC adaptive polling subsystem"
	depends on XSC
	default y
	help
	  Enable the adaptive polling subsystem which dynamically adjusts
	  polling intervals based on workload and doorbell reliability.

	  Starts with fast sub-ms polling during doorbell trust convergence,
	  then backs off to watchdog mode (5-10ms) once reliable. Returns
	  to fast mode on any anomaly.

	  Supports tickless/deferrable timers for power efficiency.

	  This is the core notification mechanism and should always be enabled.

	  If unsure, say Y.

config XSC_SOFT_DOORBELL
	bool "Optional null doorbell syscall (not recommended)"
	depends on XSC
	default n
	help
	  CAUTION: This adds a reserved syscall number that can wake workers
	  without performing privileged operations. It does NOT submit work
	  and is ONLY a last-resort wake hint for platforms without hardware
	  or virtual doorbells.

	  Even when built, it remains DISABLED unless explicitly enabled at
	  boot with xsc.softdb=on AND per-task opt-in via prctl().

	  This feature is compiled out by default to preserve XSC's purity.
	  Most deployments should use hardware/virtual doorbells or rely on
	  adaptive polling.

	  If unsure, say N.

config XSC_TRACE
	bool "XSC tracing and transparency support"
	depends on XSC
	select TRACING
	default y
	help
	  Enable tracepoints for strace, auditd, seccomp, ptrace, and eBPF.

	  Provides xsc_sys_enter/exit tracepoints that mirror traditional
	  sys_enter/exit behavior. Ensures full observability parity with
	  standard Linux.

	  If unsure, say Y.

config XSC_SECCOMP
	bool "Seccomp-on-consume support"
	depends on XSC && SECCOMP
	default y
	help
	  Execute seccomp filters when workers dequeue submissions.

	  Preserves container seccomp policies with identical semantics.
	  All ALLOW/KILL/ERRNO/TRAP/USER_NOTIF actions work as expected.

	  If unsure, say Y.
